Web Services?
	A service provided over the web

Why?
	We're not leveraging our hardware - we don't need to worry about local failure.
	Can communicate more easily. 
	Don't need much from the client machine. 


	Update anomalies: 
		I can always update the applicaiton. 

	Platform independent: 
		We can still provide services, regardless of the underlying code. 

	Services don't require a DB. 
		They don't need DB credentials. 


HTTP: 
	Hypertext Transfer protocol 

	Request 
		URI - Uniform Resource Identifier
		Method - Tells the server what to do with payload. 
		Header - Metadata we provide with our payload 
		Body - payload 


	Response 
		Status line - 3 digit number, that specifies what happened!
		Header - metadata we provide with our pay load
		Body - payload 


Methods: 

	GET: Read method
	POST: Create method
	PUT: Update method
	DELETE: Delete method
	PATCH : partial update that is not idempotent 
	OPTIONS
	HEAD
	TRACE 
	CONNECT...

	Idempotent : Will have the same outcome, regardless of the number of times it's
			performed
			GET is idempotent. 
			POST is NOT idempotent 
			PUT is idempotent 
			DELETE is idempotent 
			

	Safe: Does not change the state/resources in the server.
		GET is the only safe method we have. 

(SOAP is a older protocol, this is a messaging protocol)

REST: Representational State Transfer
	An architecteral style protocol. 

	What kind of information can I send over?
		Text, JSON and XML. 

	Transfer protcol?
		HTTP/HTTPS

	If all constraints are met, then we have a RESTful API. 
	otherwise we have a REST based api. 

	RESTful constraints: 
		1) Stateless - does not keep track of "state", i.e. it only considers
			the single request. 
		2) Uniform Interface : Interface is easy/simple/clear to use. 
			2.1) Resource based e.g. api/welcome -> welcome.html
						api/planet -> {name: mars} 
						api/getAPlanet 
			2.2) Self descriptive message : the message declares how to process itself. 
				(cachability) 
			2.3) Actions on resources through representation : i.e. I can modify the state of the 
				server with a representation of the object (if I have permission). 
				
			2.4) Hypermedia as the Engine of the Application state (HATEOAS):
				Client and server delivers "states" with each other using 
				url, http bodies, headers, query/string parameter. 

		3) Client-Server : They are seperate entities. 
		4) Cachaeable : resources that are cachable are declared implicilty or explicitly as 
			cachable. 
		5) Layered System : each layer does not "see" beyond one layer. 
		6) (Optional) Code on Demand : It allows us to extend the functionality of the frontend 
			by downloading and executing code from the server. 
		




Uniform interface


	PlanetAPI/api/planet 
	PlaentAPI/api/moon
	


What design patterns did we use?

	DAO - allows us to abstract away our database calls. 
	MVC - Model view controller: 
		Model - business logic 
		View - user interacts with the system (presentation)
		controller - bridge between model and view 

	Front Controller Design pattern; 
	Singelton 


